= MiniMagick

A ruby wrapper for ImageMagick command line.


== Why?

I was using RMagick and loving it, but it was eating up huge amounts
of memory. A simple script like this...

  Magick::read("image.jpg") do |f|
    f.write("manipulated.jpg")
  end

...would use over 100 Megs of Ram. On my local machine this wasn't a
problem, but on my hosting server the ruby apps would crash because of
their 100 Meg memory limit.


== Solution!

Using MiniMagick the ruby processes memory remains small (it spawns
ImageMagick's command line programs mogrify and composite which takes 
up some memory as well, but is much smaller compared to RMagick)

MiniMagick gives you access to all the commandline options ImageMagick
has (Found here http://www.imagemagick.org/script/mogrify.php)


== Examples

Want to make a thumbnail from a file...

  image = MiniMagick::Image.from_file("input.jpg")
  image.resize "100x100"
  image.write("output.jpg")

Want to make a thumbnail from a blob...

  image = MiniMagick::Image.from_blob(blob)
  image.resize "100x100"
  image.write("output.jpg")

Need to combine several options?

  image = MiniMagick::Image.from_file("input.jpg")
  image.combine_options do |c|
    c.sample "50%"
    c.rotate "-90>"
  end
  image.write("output.jpg")

Want to manipulate an image at its source (You won't have to write it
out because the transformations are done on that file)

  image = MiniMagick::Image.new("input.jpg")
  image.resize "100x100"

Want to get some meta-information out?

  image = MiniMagick::Image.from_file("input.jpg")
  image[:width]               # will get the width (you can also use :height and :format)
  image["EXIF:BitsPerSample"] # It also can get all the EXIF tags
  image["%m:%f %wx%h"]        # Or you can use one of the many options of the format command

For more on the format command see
http://www.imagemagick.org/script/command-line-options.php#format


== Compositing

To create a composite simply call Composite.new with the images you want composite,
the path to the output file and any command line options you may want. Note that the
images should be passed in the order you want them stacked (first image is on top, second
image is in back). You will be returned a MiniMagick::Image instance for the new composited image:

  image1 = MiniMagick::Image.open('foreground.png')
  image2 = MiniMagick::Image.open('background.png')
  output_image = MiniMagick::Composite.new(image1, image2, 'composite_image_file.jpg', :gravity => 'NorthEast')

The above example would combine the two images into a file named 'composite_image_file.jpg'
and, if the two images are different sizes, will stick the top image into the upper right (north east)
corner of the bottom image.

The 'composite' script has several options, see here: http://www.imagemagick.org/script/composite.php


== Requirements

You must have ImageMagick installed.
